---
layout:     post
title:      "Pwnable.kr - collision"
date:       2017-11-24 8:00:00
author:     "W3ndige"
permalink: /:title/
category: 'Pwnable'
---

Let's start another challenge from [pwnable.kr](http://pwnable.kr "pwnable.kr") called ***collision***, which is next one in ***Toddler's Bottle*** category.

{% highlight text %}
Daddy told me about cool MD5 hash collision today.
I wanna do something like that too!
{% endhighlight %}

Once again we have to connect via ***ssh*** in order to view challenge files.

{% highlight bash %}
w3ndige@main ~ % ssh col@pwnable.kr -p2222
col@pwnable.krs password:
 ____  __    __  ____    ____  ____   _        ___      __  _  ____  
|    \|  |__|  ||    \  /    ||    \ | |      /  _]    |  |/ ]|    \
|  o  )  |  |  ||  _  ||  o  ||  o  )| |     /  [_     |  ' / |  D  )
|   _/|  |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     || |___ |    _]    |    \ |    /
|  |  |  `  '  ||  |  ||  _  ||  O  ||     ||   [_  __ |     \|    \
|  |   \      / |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     ||     ||  ||  .  ||  .  \
|__|    \_/\_/  |__|__||__|__||_____||_____||_____||__||__|\_||__|\_|

- Site admin : daehee87.kr@gmail.com
- IRC : irc.netgarage.org:6667 / #pwnable.kr
- Simply type "irssi" command to join IRC now
- files under /tmp can be erased anytime. make your directory under /tmp
- to use peda, issue `source /usr/share/peda/peda.py` in gdb terminal
Last login: Fri Nov 24 12:21:39 2017 from 24.16.85.95
col@ubuntu:~$ ls -la
total 36
drwxr-x---  5 root    col     4096 Oct 23  2016 .
drwxr-xr-x 80 root    root    4096 Jan 11  2017 ..
d---------  2 root    root    4096 Jun 12  2014 .bash_history
-r-sr-x---  1 col_pwn col     7341 Jun 11  2014 col
-rw-r--r--  1 root    root     555 Jun 12  2014 col.c
-r--r-----  1 col_pwn col_pwn   52 Jun 11  2014 flag
dr-xr-xr-x  2 root    root    4096 Aug 20  2014 .irssi
drwxr-xr-x  2 root    root    4096 Oct 23  2016 .pwntools-cache
{% endhighlight %}

And without hesitation, let's jump straight into the code.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>
unsigned long hashcode = 0x21DD09EC;
unsigned long check_password(const char* p){
	int* ip = (int*)p;
	int i;
	int res=0;
	for(i=0; i<5; i++){
		res += ip[i];
	}
	return res;
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]){
	if(argc<2){
		printf("usage : %s [passcode]\n", argv[0]);
		return 0;
	}
	if(strlen(argv[1]) != 20){
		printf("passcode length should be 20 bytes\n");
		return 0;
	}

	if(hashcode == check_password( argv[1] )){
		system("/bin/cat flag");
		return 0;
	}
	else
		printf("wrong passcode.\n");
	return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Firstly `int* ip = (int*)p;` will cast the char, passed as the parameter into the `check_password` function. In addition we know that the passcode has to be ***20 bytes***. After doing simple mathematics, our input will have to consist of 5 integers, as the size of `int` is ***4 bytes***.  What next?

Function will return the sum of these 5 integers, which is calculated by the loop. Back in the `main` function, this sum is checked for length, then compared with ***hash*** and if the answer is correct, it will view the flag for us.

Let's convert ***hash*** into the decimal number.

{% highlight python %}
>>> 0x21DD09EC
568134124
{% endhighlight %}

Great, now we can divide it into ***5 pieces***. But as the number is not divisible by 5, we'll have to use floor division which will truncate numbers after decimal point.

{% highlight python %}
>>> 0x21DD09EC // 5
113626824
>>> hex(113626824)
'0x6c5cec8'
{% endhighlight %}

Now let's use these 4 *pieces*. We will substract them from the original hash, which will result in our fifth piece.

{% highlight python %}
>>> 0x21DD09EC - 454507296
113626828
>>> hex(113626828)
'0x6c5cecc'
{% endhighlight %}

Will it be true? We can check it with simple comparision operation.

{% highlight python %}
>>> 4 * 0x6c5cec8 + 0x6c5cecc == 0x21DD09EC
True
{% endhighlight %}

Great, our math worked out! Now we will only have to convert these hex values into ***little endian***, as that's how C stores integers. After that we're ready to exploit this application.

{% highlight bash %}
col@ubuntu:~$ ./col $(python2 -c 'print "\xc8\xce\xc5\x06" * 4 + "\xcc\xce\xc5\x06";')
daddy! I just managed to create a hash collision :)
{% endhighlight %}
