---
layout:     post
title:      "Pwnable.kr - fd"
date:       2017-11-23 8:00:00
author:     "W3ndige"
permalink: /:title/
category: 'Write-Ups'
---

After feeling a big need to improve my knowledge of *pwnable* category, I decided  to check out [pwnable.kr](http://pwnable.kr "pwnable.kr") and start from the beginning.

Here comes the ***Toddler's Bottle*** and the first challenge - ***fd***.

{% highlight text %}
Mommy! what is a file descriptor in Linux?
{% endhighlight %}

In order to view the challenge, we have to connect via ***ssh*** with password ***guest***.

{% highlight bash %}
w3ndige@main ~ % ssh fd@pwnable.kr -p2222
fd@pwnable.krs password:
 ____  __    __  ____    ____  ____   _        ___      __  _  ____  
|    \|  |__|  ||    \  /    ||    \ | |      /  _]    |  |/ ]|    \
|  o  )  |  |  ||  _  ||  o  ||  o  )| |     /  [_     |  ' / |  D  )
|   _/|  |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     || |___ |    _]    |    \ |    /
|  |  |  `  '  ||  |  ||  _  ||  O  ||     ||   [_  __ |     \|    \
|  |   \      / |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     ||     ||  ||  .  ||  .  \
|__|    \_/\_/  |__|__||__|__||_____||_____||_____||__||__|\_||__|\_|

- Site admin : daehee87.kr@gmail.com
- IRC : irc.netgarage.org:6667 / #pwnable.kr
- Simply type "irssi" command to join IRC now
- files under /tmp can be erased anytime. make your directory under /tmp
- to use peda, issue `source /usr/share/peda/peda.py` in gdb terminal
Last login: Thu Nov 23 11:25:25 2017 from 131.202.114.32
fd@ubuntu:~$ ls -la
total 40
drwxr-x---  5 root   fd   4096 Oct 26  2016 .
drwxr-xr-x 80 root   root 4096 Jan 11  2017 ..
d---------  2 root   root 4096 Jun 12  2014 .bash_history
-r-sr-x---  1 fd_pwn fd   7322 Jun 11  2014 fd
-rw-r--r--  1 root   root  418 Jun 11  2014 fd.c
-r--r-----  1 fd_pwn root   50 Jun 11  2014 flag
-rw-------  1 root   root  128 Oct 26  2016 .gdb_history
dr-xr-xr-x  2 root   root 4096 Dec 19  2016 .irssi
drwxr-xr-x  2 root   root 4096 Oct 23  2016 .pwntools-cache
{% endhighlight %}

In this directory we have the challenge files - source code and binary. Firstly, let's view the source to understand what's going on.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
char buf[32];
int main(int argc, char* argv[], char* envp[]){
	if(argc<2){
		printf("pass argv[1] a number\n");
		return 0;
	}
	int fd = atoi( argv[1] ) - 0x1234;
	int len = 0;
	len = read(fd, buf, 32);
	if(!strcmp("LETMEWIN\n", buf)){
		printf("good job :)\n");
		system("/bin/cat flag");
		exit(0);
	}
	printf("learn about Linux file IO\n");
	return 0;

}
{% endhighlight %}

By reading it, we get that firstly `atoi( argv[1] )` will convert the argument into the integer, then it will substract from it `0x1234`. After converting it into decimal we get number `4660`.

{% highlight python %}
>>> 0x1234
4660
{% endhighlight%}

After that `read(fd, buf, 32)` syscall is executed. First argument of this function `fd` is the file descriptor of where to read the input. Then `buf` is the character array where the read content will be stored and `32` is the number of bytes to read before truncating the data. The last step compares the content of `buf` with a string `LETMEWIN\n`.

How can we enter this string to make the condition true? Firstly, we can learn that file descriptor is simply an integer that is used to access a file, or IO resource. Read more at [Wikipedia](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/File_descriptor "Wikipedia")

Each Unix process should have three standard ***POSIX*** file descriptors. With respective integers ***0*** is ***stdin***, ***1*** is ***stdout*** and ***2*** is ***stderr***. In our attack we're going to use ***stdin***, since it's going to allow us to enter characters from the keyboard.

To make the `fd` equall to 0, we're going to make the `atoi( argv[1] )` equall to the `4660`. Then substraction will result in 0, and the `read` function will read the characters that we enter.

{% highlight text %}
fd@ubuntu:~$ ./fd 4660
LETMEWIN
good job :)
mommy! I think I know what a file descriptor is!!
{% endhighlight %}

Here goes the flag!
