---
layout:     post
title:      "Pwnable.kr - lotto"
date:       2018-02-25 0:00:00
author:     "W3ndige"
permalink: /:title/
category: 'Pwnable'
---

Another challenge, another mistake in code. ***Lotto***  challenge from [pwnable.kr](http://pwnable.kr "pwnable.kr").

{% highlight text %}
Mommy! I made a lotto program for my homework.
do you want to play?


ssh lotto@pwnable.kr -p2222 (pw:guest)
{% endhighlight %}

### Solution

Let's log in into provided `ssh` server and as we have the executable, run the file.

{% highlight bash %}
main:~ > ssh lotto@pwnable.kr -p2222
lotto@pwnable.krs password:
 ____  __    __  ____    ____  ____   _        ___      __  _  ____  
|    \|  |__|  ||    \  /    ||    \ | |      /  _]    |  |/ ]|    \
|  o  )  |  |  ||  _  ||  o  ||  o  )| |     /  [_     |  ' / |  D  )
|   _/|  |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     || |___ |    _]    |    \ |    /
|  |  |  `  '  ||  |  ||  _  ||  O  ||     ||   [_  __ |     \|    \
|  |   \      / |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     ||     ||  ||  .  ||  .  \
|__|    \_/\_/  |__|__||__|__||_____||_____||_____||__||__|\_||__|\_|

- Site admin : daehee87.kr@gmail.com
- IRC : irc.netgarage.org:6667 / #pwnable.kr
- Simply type "irssi" command to join IRC now
- files under /tmp can be erased anytime. make your directory under /tmp
- to use peda, issue `source /usr/share/peda/peda.py` in gdb terminal
Last login: Wed Feb  7 11:36:50 2018 from 217.209.225.118
lotto@ubuntu:~$ ls -la
total 44
drwxr-x---  5 root      lotto  4096 Oct 23  2016 .
drwxr-xr-x 87 root      root   4096 Dec 27 23:17 ..
d---------  2 root      root   4096 Feb 18  2015 .bash_history
-r--r-----  1 lotto_pwn root     55 Feb 18  2015 flag
dr-xr-xr-x  2 root      root   4096 Feb 18  2015 .irssi
-r-sr-x---  1 lotto_pwn lotto 13081 Feb 18  2015 lotto
-r--r--r--  1 root      root   1713 Feb 18  2015 lotto.c
drwxr-xr-x  2 root      root   4096 Oct 23  2016 .pwntools-cache
lotto@ubuntu:~$ ./lotto
- Select Menu -
1. Play Lotto
2. Help
3. Exit
1
Submit your 6 lotto bytes : 123456
Lotto Start!
bad luck...
- Select Menu -
1. Play Lotto
2. Help
3. Exit
3
bye
lotto@ubuntu:~$
{% endhighlight %}

So that's another guessing game. We can look at help option to look for hints.

{% highlight bash %}
lotto@ubuntu:~$ ./lotto
- Select Menu -
1. Play Lotto
2. Help
3. Exit
2
- nLotto Rule -
nlotto is consisted with 6 random natural numbers less than 46
your goal is to match lotto numbers as many as you can
if you win lottery for *1st place*, you will get reward
for more details, follow the link below
http://www.nlotto.co.kr/counsel.do?method=playerGuide#buying_guide01

mathematical chance to win this game is known to be 1/8145060.
{% endhighlight %}

To be honest, that's not much here so let's get into the code.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <stdlib.h>
#include <string.h>
#include <fcntl.h>

unsigned char submit[6];

void play(){

	int i;
	printf("Submit your 6 lotto bytes : ");
	fflush(stdout);

	int r;
	r = read(0, submit, 6);

	printf("Lotto Start!\n");
	//sleep(1);

	// generate lotto numbers
	int fd = open("/dev/urandom", O_RDONLY);
	if(fd==-1){
		printf("error. tell admin\n");
		exit(-1);
	}
	unsigned char lotto[6];
	if(read(fd, lotto, 6) != 6){
		printf("error2. tell admin\n");
		exit(-1);
	}
	for(i=0; i<6; i++){
		lotto[i] = (lotto[i] % 45) + 1;		// 1 ~ 45
	}
	close(fd);

	// calculate lotto score
	int match = 0, j = 0;
	for(i=0; i<6; i++){
		for(j=0; j<6; j++){
			if(lotto[i] == submit[j]){
				match++;
			}
		}
	}

	// win!
	if(match == 6){
		system("/bin/cat flag");
	}
	else{
		printf("bad luck...\n");
	}

}

void help(){
	printf("- nLotto Rule -\n");
	printf("nlotto is consisted with 6 random natural numbers less than 46\n");
	printf("your goal is to match lotto numbers as many as you can\n");
	printf("if you win lottery for *1st place*, you will get reward\n");
	printf("for more details, follow the link below\n");
	printf("http://www.nlotto.co.kr/counsel.do?method=playerGuide#buying_guide01\n\n");
	printf("mathematical chance to win this game is known to be 1/8145060.\n");
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[]){

	// menu
	unsigned int menu;

	while(1){

		printf("- Select Menu -\n");
		printf("1. Play Lotto\n");
		printf("2. Help\n");
		printf("3. Exit\n");

		scanf("%d", &menu);

		switch(menu){
			case 1:
				play();
				break;
			case 2:
				help();
				break;
			case 3:
				printf("bye\n");
				return 0;
			default:
				printf("invalid menu\n");
				break;
		}
	}
	return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

Firstly, we notice that `unsigned char lotto[6];` is a char variable, so only printable characters. As this lotto takes only numbers in range 1-45, it leaves us with the range of 33 - 45. Looking at the ASCII table, characters with these codes are `!"#$%&'()*+,-`.

But after that, we can also notice another bug.

{% highlight c %}
// calculate lotto score
int match = 0, j = 0;
for(i=0; i<6; i++){
  for(j=0; j<6; j++){
    if(lotto[i] == submit[j]){
      match++;
    }
  }
}
{% endhighlight%}

These piece of code means that for each character in the `lotto`, it will iterate every character in the input. So we can just enter any possible character six times, and with a little bit of luck, we'll get the match and win the game.

{% highlight bash %}
Submit your 6 lotto bytes : $$$$$$
Lotto Start!
sorry mom... I FORGOT to check duplicate numbers... :(
- Select Menu -
1. Play Lotto
2. Help
3. Exit
3
bye
{% endhighlight %}
